[H1] MSc in Health Sciences
[P] Graduate Program Coordinator: Ketan Shankardass, PhD kshankardass@wlu.ca
[P] Graduate Program Coordinator:
[P] Ketan Shankardass, PhD kshankardass@wlu.ca
[LI] Admission Requirements
[LI] Program Requirements
[P] To be admitted to the Master of Science (MSc) in Health Sciences program (thesis stream), an applicant must meet the general admission requirements of the university, and must possess an honours undergraduate degree in a related discipline (e.g., Health Sciences, Life Sciences, Biomedical Sciences, Biology, Psychology), with an A- average in the last two years of study. Completion of research methods courses and an honours thesis are typically expected. Applicants who do not meet these requirements but who have other research experiences may still apply, but may be expected to complete additional courses. An appropriate match with a supervisor is required and strongly suggested before an application is submitted. To be admitted to the Master of Science (MSc) in Health Sciences program (coursework stream), an applicant must meet the general admission requirements of the university and must possess an honours undergraduate degree in a related discipline (e.g., Health Sciences, Health Studies, Life Sciences, Biomedical Sciences, Biology, Psychology), with an A- average in the last two years of study. Applications are reviewed by the graduate admissions committee, which considers academic performance to date, a statement of interest, a writing sample, and letters of reference. Proficiency in English usage, both written and oral, is essential to pursue graduate studies at Laurier. Applicants whose language of instruction during the undergraduate degree was not English, must furnish evidence of superior proficiency in English prior to admission. Possession of minimum qualifications does not necessarily guarantee admission.
[P] To be admitted to the Master of Science (MSc) in Health Sciences program (thesis stream), an applicant must meet the general admission requirements of the university, and must possess an honours undergraduate degree in a related discipline (e.g., Health Sciences, Life Sciences, Biomedical Sciences, Biology, Psychology), with an A- average in the last two years of study. Completion of research methods courses and an honours thesis are typically expected. Applicants who do not meet these requirements but who have other research experiences may still apply, but may be expected to complete additional courses. An appropriate match with a supervisor is required and strongly suggested before an application is submitted.
[P] To be admitted to the Master of Science (MSc) in Health Sciences program (coursework stream), an applicant must meet the general admission requirements of the university and must possess an honours undergraduate degree in a related discipline (e.g., Health Sciences, Health Studies, Life Sciences, Biomedical Sciences, Biology, Psychology), with an A- average in the last two years of study.
[P] Applications are reviewed by the graduate admissions committee, which considers academic performance to date, a statement of interest, a writing sample, and letters of reference.
[P] Proficiency in English usage, both written and oral, is essential to pursue graduate studies at Laurier. Applicants whose language of instruction during the undergraduate degree was not English, must furnish evidence of superior proficiency in English prior to admission.
[P] Possession of minimum qualifications does not necessarily guarantee admission.
[P] Recognizing the strengths of an interdisciplinary approach to health sciences, and the unique learning needs of its students, two fields of specialization are offered: Molecular and Medical Sciences (MMSC) and Community, Public and Population Health (CPPH) . The MSc in Health Sciences is offered in two options: Thesis and Coursework. The thesis option is normally completed in six consecutive academic terms (two academic years). Full-time students must complete the program within three years of initial registration. The coursework option is normally completed in three consecutive academic terms (one academic year). The Thesis option requires the successful completion of two courses (1.0 credits for students in the MMSC specialization) and three courses (1.5 credits) for those in the CPPH specialization. Students in both specializations will also complete a master’s thesis (1.0 credits). A description of program components for each field is provided below. Molecular and Medical Sciences Year 1: HE601 , HE602 , HE699 * Year 2: HE699 * Community, Public and Population Health Year 1: HE601 , HE602 , Elective or HE650 Year 2: HE699 The Coursework optio n is normally completed full-time, over three consecutive terms and requires the successful completion of nine courses (4.5 credits) to graduate. Students in both specializations (Molecular and Medical Sciences, and Community, Public and Population Health) must take: HE600 - Multidisciplinary Seminar in Critical Health Issues HE604A - Applied Methods in Community, Public and Population Health or HE604B - Applied Methods in Molecular and Medical Sciences And all of the following: HE601 - Interdisciplinary Approaches to Health Sciences HE602 - Cell-to-Society Perspectives in Health Sciences HE603 - Critical Appraisal of Health Research HE605 - Health Sciences Knowledge Mobilization HE606 - Health Equity in Health Sciences Students will also select 1.0 credits from the following electives: MMSC specialization electives: HE631 - Pathophysiology HE632 - Biomedical Virology HE637 - Principles of Population Health HE638 - Cancer Biology HE640 - Special Topics CPPH specialization electives: HE610 - Aging and Health HE611 - Critical Perspectives in Public Health HE636 - Health and Human Rights HE637 - Principles of Population Health HE640 - Special Topics Note: Students entering from the Laurier Honours BSc Health Sciences program are required to complete eight courses at the 600-level (4.0 credits) as they are granted an exclusion from the required course HE600 - Multidisciplinary Seminar in Critical Health Issues based on their earned Laurier BSC Health Sciences degree. Full-time students must complete the program within two years of initial registration.
[P] Recognizing the strengths of an interdisciplinary approach to health sciences, and the unique learning needs of its students, two fields of specialization are offered: Molecular and Medical Sciences (MMSC) and Community, Public and Population Health (CPPH) . The MSc in Health Sciences is offered in two options: Thesis and Coursework. The thesis option is normally completed in six consecutive academic terms (two academic years). Full-time students must complete the program within three years of initial registration. The coursework option is normally completed in three consecutive academic terms (one academic year). The Thesis option requires the successful completion of two courses (1.0 credits for students in the MMSC specialization) and three courses (1.5 credits) for those in the CPPH specialization. Students in both specializations will also complete a master’s thesis (1.0 credits). A description of program components for each field is provided below.
[P] Molecular and Medical Sciences
[P] Year 1: HE601 , HE602 , HE699 * Year 2: HE699 *
[P] Community, Public and Population Health
[P] Year 1: HE601 , HE602 , Elective or HE650 Year 2: HE699
[P] The Coursework optio n is normally completed full-time, over three consecutive terms and requires the successful completion of nine courses (4.5 credits) to graduate. Students in both specializations (Molecular and Medical Sciences, and Community, Public and Population Health) must take:
[LI] HE600 - Multidisciplinary Seminar in Critical Health Issues
[LI] HE604A - Applied Methods in Community, Public and Population Health or HE604B - Applied Methods in Molecular and Medical Sciences
[P] And all of the following:
[LI] HE601 - Interdisciplinary Approaches to Health Sciences
[LI] HE602 - Cell-to-Society Perspectives in Health Sciences
[LI] HE603 - Critical Appraisal of Health Research
[LI] HE605 - Health Sciences Knowledge Mobilization
[LI] HE606 - Health Equity in Health Sciences
[P] Students will also select 1.0 credits from the following electives:
[P] MMSC specialization electives:
[LI] HE631 - Pathophysiology
[LI] HE632 - Biomedical Virology
[LI] HE637 - Principles of Population Health
[LI] HE638 - Cancer Biology
[LI] HE640 - Special Topics
[P] CPPH specialization electives:
[LI] HE610 - Aging and Health
[LI] HE611 - Critical Perspectives in Public Health
[LI] HE636 - Health and Human Rights
[LI] HE637 - Principles of Population Health
[LI] HE640 - Special Topics
[P] Note: Students entering from the Laurier Honours BSc Health Sciences program are required to complete eight courses at the 600-level (4.0 credits) as they are granted an exclusion from the required course HE600 - Multidisciplinary Seminar in Critical Health Issues based on their earned Laurier BSC Health Sciences degree.
[P] Full-time students must complete the program within two years of initial registration.